.TH NOTES 1 "2017 August 06" "Note Store"

.SH NAME
notes - stores, retrieves, and synchronizes notes

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B notes
[ 
.I COMMAND
] [ 
.I OPTIONS
]... [ 
.I ARGS
]...

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B notes 
is a very simple note store.
The
.B notes
utility provides a series of commands for manipulating the note store,
allowing the user to add, remove, edit, synchronize, and manipulate
notes.

If no COMMAND is specified, COMMAND defaults to either
.B show
or
.BR ls ,
depending on the type of specifier in ARGS. Alternatively, if \fINOTE_STORE_ENABLE_EXTENSIONS\fP
is set to "true", and the file \fI.extensions/COMMAND.bash\fP exists inside the
note store and is executable, then it is sourced into the environment,
passing any arguments and environment variables. Extensions existing in a
system-wide directory, only installable by the administrator, are always enabled.

Otherwise COMMAND must be one of the valid commands listed below.

Several of the commands below rely on or provide additional functionality if
the note store directory is also a git repository. If the note store
directory is a git repository, all note store modification commands will
cause a corresponding git commit.

There is a corresponding bash completion script for use with tab completing
note titles in
.BR bash (1).

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
\fBls\fP \fIsubfolder\fP
List names of notes inside the tree at
.I subfolder
by using the
.BR tree (1)
program. This command is alternatively named \fBlist\fP.
.TP
\fBgrep\fP \fIsearch-string\fP
Searches inside each note file for \fIsearch-string\fP, and displays line
containing matched string along with filename. Uses
.BR grep (1)
for matching. Make use of the \fIGREP_OPTIONS\fP environment variable to set particular
options.
.TP
\fBfind\fP \fInote-titles\fP...
List names of notes inside the tree that match \fInote-titles\fP by using the
.BR tree (1)
program. This command is alternatively named \fBsearch\fP.
.TP
\fBshow\fP \fInote-title\fP
Print a note named \fInote-title\fP.
.TP
\fBinsert\fP [ \fI--append\fP, \fI-a\fP ] [ \fI--force\fP, \fI-f\fP ] \fInote-title\fP
Insert a new note into the note store called \fInote-title\fP. This will
read the new note from standard in. If \fI--append\fP or \fI-a\fP is specified, append
the input to an existing note. Prompt before overwriting an existing note, unless \fI--force\fP or \fI-f\fP is specified.
This command is alternatively named \fBadd\fP.
.TP
\fBedit\fP \fInote-title\fP
Insert a new note or edit an existing note using the default text editor specified
by the environment variable \fIEDITOR\fP or using
.BR vi (1)
.TP
\fBrm\fP [ \fI--recursive\fP, \fI-r\fP ] [ \fI--force\fP, \fI-f\fP ] \fInote-title\fP
Remove the note named \fInote-title\fP from the note store. This command is
alternatively named \fBremove\fP or \fBdelete\fP. If \fI--recursive\fP or \fI-r\fP
is specified, delete note-title recursively if it is a directory. If \fI--force\fP
or \fI-f\fP is specified, do not interactively prompt before removal.
.TP
\fBmv\fP [ \fI--force\fP, \fI-f\fP ] \fIold-path\fP \fInew-path\fP
Renames the note or directory named \fIold-path\fP to \fInew-path\fP. This
command is alternatively named \fBrename\fP. If \fI--force\fP is specified,
silently overwrite \fInew-path\fP if it exists. If \fInew-path\fP ends in a
trailing \fI/\fP, it is always treated as a directory.
.TP
\fBcp\fP [ \fI--force\fP, \fI-f\fP ] \fIold-path\fP \fInew-path\fP
Copies the note or directory named \fIold-path\fP to \fInew-path\fP. This
command is alternatively named \fBcopy\fP. If \fI--force\fP is specified,
silently overwrite \fInew-path\fP if it exists. If \fInew-path\fP ends in a
trailing \fI/\fP, it is always treated as a directory.
.TP
\fBgit\fP \fIgit-command-args\fP...
If the note store is a git repository, pass \fIgit-command-args\fP as arguments to
.BR git (1)
using the note store as the git repository. If \fIgit-command-args\fP is \fBinit\fP,
in addition to initializing the git repository, add the current contents of the note
store to the repository in an initial commit.
TP
\fBhelp\fP
Show usage message.
.TP
\fBversion\fP
Show version information.

.SH FILES

.TP
.B ~/note-store
The default note storage directory.
.TP
.B ~/note-store/.extensions
The directory containing extension files.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

.TP
.I NOTE_STORE_DIR
Overrides the default note storage directory.
.TP
.I NOTE_STORE_ENABLE_EXTENSIONS
This environment variable must be set to "true" for extensions to be enabled.
.TP
.I NOTE_STORE_EXTENSIONS_DIR
The location to look for executable extension files, by default
\fINOTE_STORE_DIR/.extensions\fP.
.TP
.I EDITOR
The location of the text editor used by \fBedit\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),

.SH AUTHOR
.B notes
was written by
.MT philipp.hack@gmail.com
Philipp Hack
.ME .
based on \fBpass\fP by
.MT Jason@zx2c4.com
Jason A. Donenfeld
.ME .

.SH COPYING
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
